# Carbon_Footprint_Calculator
In a literal term, Carbon Footprint is the amount of Carbon Dioxide emitted in the Earth's atmosphere due to human activities. Currently many devastating ecological events from global warming to Climate change are taking place due to GreenHouse Gas emissions, out of which carbon dioxide has a bigger share. With an exponentially growing human population, it is very important to spread awareness about the issue and educate people to reduce their carbon footprint. Many steps are being taken by both private and government organizations, but still there is lack of awareness among people on large scale as people are not addressed on ground level. Consequently there is no precise database on carbon footprint of citizens which is very important to have before solving any problem. It is necessary to address each citizen of the country in order to get effective results on a large scale. To make this possible, the only government panel which can address each citizen of India on ground level is "The census department of India ''. If each admin of the census department who conducts the survey in allocated areas is provided with this software, then along with the census database, the admin can also easily collect the carbon footprint database of that family / small group of people. The primary goal of this software is to initiate and automate the Data collection process with sole purpose of tackling ecological issues, enabling we developers with huge dataset for future work like integrating more advance technologies like AI and ML to help solve ecological problems.
